## Overview

### How different types of website are handled and why

When running web systems efficiently and sanely, we desire them to have some important attributes. In particular, we'd like that:

* It runs in its own isolated filesystem, resisting bitrot by bundling its dependencies with its core code
* It's configuration state is stored in its environment and managed using .env files
* It is mostly stateless, storing data only in a few well-defined end-points making it easy for administrators to back up only what is needed to recreate the application's state.
* It sends its logs to STDOUT and STDERR where they are collected by the system or the docker daemon, making it easy to find and debug problems with the application. From there they may be destroyed (in accordance with no IP policies), forwarded to other hosts for analysis, backed-up, etc. But essentially there is one place to find logs and one place to remove them.
	
At this point we should note that a php app like Wordpress is never 12-factor compliant, but the versions of wordpress built by this pipeline do come close.

From this we can generalize that any running application or website will be either ** fully 12-factor compliant** *or* **will be a php-application like Wordpress**. We can settle for Wordpress not being fully compliant with the above points since we need to make heavy optimizations so that we can run many Wordpress sites quickly and efficiently. Php applications in turn may be either *part of the core php-fpm group container,* in which case each website runs as a separate user in the same group-fpm container using different php user pools **or** *each user has their own php-fpm container.*

** We treat each kind of application slightly differently**.

** To recap**:

Anything running on the server is one of three things:

1) ** A modern 12-factor container app**. Examples include Gogits, Riot, kanboard, etherpad, etc.
	* Each app container has exactly 1 vhost.
	* May require multiple containers, set up using docker-compose
	* Vhosts are automaticly-generated (by dockergen) when their containers are started
	** For more information, see 1.3-Dockergen.md**

2) **Wordpress on-demand** (or another php-fpm app), also known as **single-user-container Wordpress**.
	* Has exactly 1 vhost per container
	* Has exactly 1 container per website. That container runs php-fpm as standard www-data user with 1 php pool.
	* Can be stopped automatically by the host when no traffic is detected **for memory reasons**
	* Can be started automatically by the host when new traffic arrives
	* Vs. **group-fpm wordpress**, on-demand is slower to start but uses less memory as it can be shut down automatically when not in use. Ideal for low-volume sites.
	Vs. **group-fpm wordpress**, on-demand **should** have security benefits, as each execution environment has its own isolated container. However these benefits may be theoretical as fpm is not known to be too insecure.
	* Configuration injected at run-time by the docker-daemon using .env files in /var/www/$domain.
	** For more information, see 1.2-ContainersOnDemand.md**
	
Reminder: Different websites in single-container wordpress can't interact with each other because they have different filesystems **even though** they run under the same UID and **even though** those filesystems 'appear' to see the same files.
	
3) ** Group-fpm (classic) container Wordpress** (or another php-fpm app), also known as multi-system-user wordpress.
	* Has 1 container, but multiple vhosts
	* That container is always running (reduces startup-time compared to on-demand wordpress)
	* Each website runs as a different user (the 'classic' shared-host style).
	* Each website is served by 1 fpm pool. When a new request is received, the fpm-daemon forks into that user to execute the php code.
	* vs. **on-demand wordpress**, group-fpm has *absolute performance benefits*, i.e. websites start much more quickly, but the *fpm daemon may use more memory*.
	* vs. **on-demand wordpress**, group-fpm *may be slightly less secure*, but no less so than any other shared-hosting environment.
	* Configuration injected at vhost-build time by Ansible using php pool configs.
	** For more information, see 1.2-GroupFPM.md**
	
** Note: ** This is **different** from WP:MU. When we refer to multi-user wordpress, we refer to **multi-system user**, as in there are many different Linux user accounts which the fpm daemon is programmed to execute code under. They all run in the **the same container**, in a classic shared-hosting style.

We have two different types of wordpress because it isn't presently clear which type is superior.

** No other types of apps should run on this server. This is to reduce maintainance burden, bitrot, and contamination.**


### Where does everything live?

In general, user directories are in `/var/www`. Application config always lives in docker volumes, which you can investigate using the `docker volume` command which prints a list of available volumes. **This is a quick and easy mechanism for admins to find and investigate relevent application config**.

 In particular, check out:

	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_sites_enabled
	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_htpasswd
	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_nginx_config
	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_nginx_config_inc
	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_vhost_config
	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_ssl_certs
	/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_group_php_pools

**Many files in these locations are included automatically by the relevent build-script, whether ansible or docker, or nginx itself. Others are provided as convenience locations to avoid confusion in the rare case you need to directly edit nginx config.**

** For more information, you should actually read the README.md files in the above directories themselves.**

### What core components does the system comprise?

** Vagrant **

* Automatically installs fish, docker and docker-compose into the new system

** Docker-compose.yml **

Docker compose sets up the containerized core-architecture:

* ** MariaDB** (MySQL/Alpine), a shared database host principally intended for Wordpress
* ** Nginx ** (Switchboard proxy, also Alpine) loads static Wordpress assets directly from the filestem, caches executed php code, and serves all virtual hosts. It's vhosts are further configured by two more processes:
	* Dockergen, a Go script which listens for container activation and generates the right vhosts to proxy new applications. This is used for modern 12-factor apps which run in docker, ** not including wordpress **.
	* Ansible, which generates Wordpress container configurations and their vhosts, and makes sure that the host's systemd knows how to pause them when they are not in use.
* ** The group php-fpm container **, a single container which serves Wordpress using multi-system-user php pools.

Next, please read `A Note on System Identifiers.md`.