## What do you need to do?
#### I need to login as a Wordpress admin

Excellent. Just run `/usr/local/bin/autologin.sh $primarysubdomain`

For example if you need to log in to `myexamplesite.noflag.org.uk`, run `/usr/local/bin/autologin.sh myexamplesite`. The script will generate a one-time useage login link which expires within 1 hour.

**How does it work?**
First, the bash script gets the current unixtime +1 hour. It then generates a signiture with which this window is signed, and appends both of them to a generated link like `https://myexamplesite.noflag.org.uk/?valid=$window&signiture=$token`. Since the autologin.php script doesn't exist inside the container, it then copies the autologin.php script from /var/lib/wordpress to the container you specify.

When you load the page, the script looks at the current time and generates a signiture. If the signiture matches the one claimed in the URL, it knows to check that the window hasn't expired yet. If both of those checks proceed, it searches the WP database for the first admin user it finds and logs you in using that user.

Finally, autologin.php removes itself and redirects you to the admin control panel.

#### I need to add/edit a primary domain for Wordpress
This is easy. Just run the `renew-vhost` ansible script.

If you want to do it manually, read on. First you have to know whether the wordpress site is running in the php group-fpm container or is a standalone on-demand container.

**On-demand containers** have their wp-config variables populated by their container environment, which lives in `/var/www/$domain/.env`. Just edit the .env file and make sure that HTTP_HOST reflects the new domain or add it if it doesn't exist. Then run `/usr/local/bin/renew-fpm-container.sh $primary_subdomain` to create a new container with the modified environment.

**Group-fpm containers** have their wp-config variables populated by the php-pool they run under. So you need to edit the php pool associated with the php-fpm group container -- read on.

##### I need to edit the php pools associated with the php-fpm group container

* Edit template: https://labs.noflag.org.uk/Noflag/web-two-point-oh/src/master/ansible/roles/group-php-fpm/templates/php-pool.j2
* View/edit pools: `/var/lib/docker/volumes/group-fpm-pools/_data`

Then restart the container:

    docker stop wordpress-group.fpm
    docker start wordpress-group.fpm

##### I need to edit the single php pool associated with an on-demand container

* Edit template: https://labs.noflag.org.uk/Noflag/web-two-point-oh/src/master/docker/apps/wordpress/www.conf
* View/edit pools: 

    docker start $domain.fpm
    docker exec -it $domain.fpm ash
    cd /usr/local/etc/php-fpm.d

##### I need to add/edit Wordpress wp-config.php

Check the settings in /var/$domain/.env and restart the container. If you still need to do that, you can create a file named wp-config-inc.php in /var/$domain; it will be automatically included inside the wp-config file when either the ansible create script is re-run, or immediately for php-group containers.

#### I need to add/edit special vhost directives for this domain

Of course you can prototype your changes in /var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_sites_enabled/_data, but to make the changes permanent you should create a new file named $domain.conf in /var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_vhost_inc/_data. That file will be automatically included by ansible next time the create script is run, or by dockergen if you're dealing with a fully-containerized (non-Wordpress) app.

For on-demand containers, after you edit the env file, you need to restart the container. The best way is to do this using ansible to re-run the create-wordpress script.

Group-fpm containers do not use the .env file. Instead, each php pool injects its own WP config straight into the wp-config file. So you should see "I need to edit the php pools associated with the php-fpm group container" above instead.

#### I need to renew a vhost

Common reasons to want to renew a vhost without touching the underlying website:

* Adding a new domain, e.g. example.org to example.noflag.org.uk.
* Removing an expired top-level domain from the base site
* Adding an SSL certificate
* Re-creating the vhost after creating a file named $primary_subdomain.conf in `/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_vhost_config`. This will prompt ansible to automatically include the contents of the file in the vhost template.

This is as simple as running `ansible/plays/renew-vhost.yml`.

#### I imported a WP site but I don't see what it when I load the page

Importing is a tricky business because there's so many possible variations in how hosts can be set up. The key is to try to standardize as much as possible.

* First off, did the site actually import successfully?
** Was the site.zip file in the same directory as the `import-site.yml` play, i.e. `ansible/plays/wordpress`?
** Did the site.zip file contain `wp-content` in its root top-level directory?
** Did the site.zip file contain a file named `database.sql.gz` in its top-level directory?
** Does the `/var/www/$primary_subdomain/public_html/wp-content` contain the expected content? Is it owned by www-data?
** Does the directory `/var/www/$primary_subdomain` contain a file named `database.sql.gz`?
* Next check the well-formedness of the database dump:
** Is the file named `database.sql.gz` a gzipped sqlump? (Have you manually checked in a text editor, i.e. with `gzip -c database.sql.gz | more`?)
** Does the gzipped sqldump contains a statement like `CREATE DATABASE foo?` as its first statement? It shouldn't contain any CREATE DATABASE statements. ** Ditto for `CREATE USER`.
** Does the database.sql file contain statements where the tables don't begin with the prefix `WP_`? Well-formed DB dumps use the default WP_ prefix. If yours doesn't, you can either do a search/replace or (better) edit the .env file and add WP_PREFIX=your_prefix, where your_prefix are the first letters of the tables including the underscore. I.e. if you see statements in the SQL like `CREATE TABLE "truewp_post_meta"...`, add `WP_PREFIX=truewp_` to the `/var/www/$primary_subdomain/.env` file. After you do this you'll need to reinitalize the container by typing `/usr/local/bin/renew-fpm-container.sh $primary_subdomain`. NB: Does not work with group_fpm at this time.
* Next, check that the vhosts and php_pools were created successfully **and** loaded by their daemons.
** Look for the vhosts in `/var/lib/docker/volumes/docker_sites_enabled/` 
** Look for the fpm pools either in `/var/lib/docker/volumes/group-fpm/` or in `$primary_subdomain:/usr/local/etc/php.d/conf` (i.e. type `docker exec -it $primary_subdomain ash` first to get into the container's filesystem)
** If they contain expected values, check that the .env file contains expected data (`/var/www/$primary_subdomain/.env`) 
** If all looks good try restarting their daemons just in case ansible forgot:

    docker stop $primary_subdomain.fpm
    docker start $primary_subdomain.fpm

- or -

    docker stop group-wordpress.fpm
    docker start group-wordpress.fpm

- or -

    docker exec -it switchboard nginx -s reload

## See Also

Please read Where-to-find-stuff.md and see the Troubleshooting Flowchart.png.