## How to use MySQL Container

Actually, the bundled container is MariaDB, so that is what we will refer to it as from now on. It runs in a container named sqldb.noflag.org.uk, the principle being that it could be easily removed from this host and placed into its own server in the future, without having to change any/much config. Naming containers after domains they serve or organizations following a similar convention to package or library names in e.g. Java is in any case good practice.

### What is the root password? User passwords?
The root password is automatically generated whenever this repository is installed into a server. That way it never needs to leave the server its on. It is stored in /etc/mysql_root_password.txt. To follow the examples laid out here, you may find it easiest to do this:

    source /etc/mysql_root_password.txt

The password is now available to you as `$MYSQL_PWD`, as in `echo $MYSQL_PWD`.

A more elegent mechanism is to inject the password into the container as you run it:

    docker run --env-file /etc/mysql_root_password.txt mysql $command ...

User passwords are stored in environment files in /var/www/$primary_subdomain/.env and are injected into the container at runtime by docker where they can be read by tools which need them. If possible, its always preferable to use user passwords instead of root passwords when working with MySQL especially if you are doing data imports because its fairly trivial that the SQL import could contain root commands.

Both env files and `/etc/mysql_root_password.txt` are owned by root and are only readable by root and the docker daemon.

### Get a root sql cli

    docker exec -it sqldb.noflag.org.uk mysql

That command runs in the same container as the MySQL server. It's preferable to run the MySQL client in a separate container altogether:

    docker run --env-file /etc/mysql_root_password.txt --net docker_sqlnet -it --rm gists/mariadb mysql -uroot -hsqldb.noflag.org.uk

### Import an SQL database

Easiest way is to use the ansible play specifically for that. See `ansible/plays/sql/import-database.yml`. The documentation for the play is in the same folder as the play named README.

If you need to do it manually, or for an explanation of what the role does, read on. 

First we create a new container where we will run the mysql client but we need to map the directory containing the SQL dump into the container's filesystem.  Assuming the SQL file is named database.sql, set $DB_NAME to an existing database, then run:

    docker run -it --rm \
        --env-file /etc/mysql_root_password.txt \
        --net docker_sqlnet \
        -v $(pwd):/tmp \
        gists/mariadb \
        sh -c '\
            cat /tmp/database.sql | mysql -uroot -hsqldb.noflag.org.uk $DB_NAME'

Likewise, if the database is gzipped, run that first:

    docker run -it --rm \
        --env-file /etc/mysql_root_password.txt \
        --net docker_sqlnet \
        -v $(pwd):/tmp \
        gists/mariadb \
        sh -c '\
            gunzip -c /tmp/database.sql.gz | mysql -uroot -hsqldb.noflag.org.uk $DB_NAME'

Of course, an ansible role exists to do this for you -- check https://labs.noflag.org.uk/Noflag/web-two-point-oh/src/master/ansible/plays/sql

### Export an SQL database ##=

Easiest way is to use the ansible play specifically for that. See `ansible/plays/sql/export-database.yml`. The documentation for the play is in the same folder as the play named README.

If you really want to do it manually, read on. It's similar to above, only this time run mysqldump. Data will flow through the docker terminal into stdout, where you pipe it to a file or gzip it first. E.g.:

    docker exec -it sqldb.noflag.org.uk sh -c 'mysqldump $database_name' | gzip > database.sql.gz

Or, better:

    docker run -it --rm \
        --env-file /etc/mysql_root_password.txt \
        --net docker_sqlnet \
        gists/mariadb \
        sh -c \
            'mysqldump $database_name' | gzip > database.sql.gz

### See also

Ansible plays for importing and exporting whole sites: https://labs.noflag.org.uk/Noflag/web-two-point-oh/src/master/ansible/plays

## Troubleshooting ##

### I need to edit my.cnf MySQL config

Ansible intelligently (?) chooses a sensible config when setting up the server initially, you can edit it in repo:/ansible/roles/configure-web/templates/mysql. (Note: this overrides the default baked into the image by docker in repo:/docker/sqldb/my.cnf.) To view/edit the current values, look inside the container:

    docker exec -it sqldb.noflag.org.uk ash
    cd /etc/mysql

If you edit a value you can get it to take effect by starting and stopping the container:

    docker stop sqldb.noflag.org.uk
    docker start sqldb.noflag.org.uk

It will not persist after the container is removed, i.e. you can get back to a fresh slate by running the following in /usr/local/web/docker:

    docker rm -f sqldb.noflag.org.uk
    docker-compose up -d

If you particularly want your changes to persist if the container is destroyed, edit /usr/local/web/docker/sqldb/my.cnf, per above, then remove and recreate the container.