## Duplicity backups

### Summary
To use, just run ansible/plays/system/configure-backups.yml. The play performs the following tasks:

* Ensure duplicity, gpg, gsutil, python-boto and gfshare are all installed
* Set up cron-tasks for duplicity
* Generate a new GPG key if one does not already exist
* Use shamir's secret sharing (gfshare) to split the key into predefined pieces and downloads them to the host

However, first the remote host must be configured with access to Google Nearline and Nearline must be configured with a backup bucket. Read on to find out how to do that:

### Google Cloud Console

#### Creating a Bucket

If an existing project/bucket doesn't exist or you want to create a new one, head to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.developers.google.com).

If a project doesn't exist, you'll be prompted with a popup to create a new one and if you already have one, click the drop-down menu next to the name of your current project and select 'Create project'.

**Note**: Name the project something appropriate, but note that all project names are viewable to the public. 

Once created, head back to [Google Cloud Console](https://cloud.google.com). You should see the name of the project at the top of page, indicating you are in the correct place.

Click the hamburger menu at the top left of the page (looks like three lines stacked on top of each other), scroll down to and click on "Storage".

Select "Create Bucket" from the top of the page, give it a name and choose "Nearline" as the Default storage class. Under Multi-regional location, choose European Union and then select "Create".

The bucket will now appear in the Storage section.

##### Interoperability Access

Like before, head to the [Storage section](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser) in the Cloud Dashboard, click on Settings on the left-hand-side and select the "Interoperability" tab from the page that has loaded.

Under "Interoperable Storage Access Keys", select "Create a new key" and copy the Access and Secret keys somewhere secure that you can refer to later on. 

#### Configuring access

Run the play once. It will install google-cloud sdk and duplicity and make sure they are the latest version. Then it will check if a boto file exists -- of course it will fail.

Log on to the remote host then run `gcloud init` and `gsutil config -a` to generate a `~/.boto` configuration file with your access and secret key credentials from Google Cloud. You need to transfer that file to  /root/.boto.

**The play will refuse to run if this file does not exist.**

You should now be able to re-run the play without trouble.